The, uh, alternate week next week, it won't be there. It will be thereafter.
2 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Thanks, Eva.
3 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Do you upload the recording? Was it? Yeah, I agree.
4 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, that's continue in our.
5 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, I don't know if you want your.
6 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Your mouse, if you want to see how did you do it?
7 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
When was your mistake? Uh, you can email me and I will.
8 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Email the scan. Okay.
9 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, for example, yeah, ask him.
10 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, we have scans, uh, uh, all, um.
11 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This 1.
12 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This means you, you know.
13 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, where when you you need some mistake.
14 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Where you did that okay if you want this email me.
15 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Please email me and.
16 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I will email back to you.
17 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, coming back to our.
18 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Hello.
19 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Coming back to our.
20 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Um, so we have finished, uh, here.
21 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And here we can, uh, we can see that, uh, another source example.
22 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And here, if you want to convert, we will.
23 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
But this to become this.
24 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To become this, this means remember the source.
25 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Seem like a source, uh, they have.
26 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is a + and .
27 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, if if we have the current source.
28 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Um, when do you have to convert.
29 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We will gaps the priority that is positive, but when the current source, the arrow is downwards.
30 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We will get when we convert, we will get the other the negative.
31 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The opposite 180, so that's why.
32 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
In here, it's more but downwards and this is 3 owns.
33 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, when we want to convert this, uh, this is for multiply by 3.
34 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Because the whole slot, the voltage is 4 multiplied by 3. you get 12, but you need to.
35 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Also brought the opposite priority because.
36 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is downwards and the resistor in the blue box.
37 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
On the left is always the same as the resistor in the blue box on the right.
38 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this is to answer your transcript here because here we have this setup.
39 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, current sauce and, uh, what is our? So, maybe we can solve it, but it's.
40 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Maybe not straight forward, but if we cover.
41 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
But this current source to be clear what the source now, you can.
42 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is that you can solve this quite easily because this.
43 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To in series, you can remember in the 1st, 2 weeks we learned that.
44 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
When they are 2 voltage in series, we can.
45 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, add them depending on the priority of course. So then.
46 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We must be careful with the priority, but we can group them together to become, uh, 1 voltage source.
47 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yeah, so now we we have here i2.
48 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, if you want to start on the left.
49 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Perhaps we can do, but it's not quite, uh, straightforward. Uh, easy to look at. So, that's why.
50 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We, we convert it into a voltage source.
51 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And you can see, now they are in series.
52 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
In series, so if you.
53 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Allows us to find I do so and we can group.
54 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, we can also group.
55 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And, uh, together yeah.
56 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This looks like this if we bring it.
57 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, this 2 here, uh, this.
58 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, on.
59 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This 1, I'll bring it here. The plus also will be.
60 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This so this can be grouped together.
61 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Um, plus - and also bring it here plus - and, uh.
62 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The 3, the 3 arms.
63 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Actually is in series with the.
64 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
With these 3 hours, and this is, uh, 2 bones.
65 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And now, uh, I do, you know how to do it our own slot and.
66 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
As the whole, if this is, uh, you can make it as 1.
67 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, this you can add it as a 1. so if.
68 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, this is a 5.
69 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And this is 12 volts.
70 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, as a whole it is 17.
71 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And please be careful with the priorities. So back, uh, this as a whole is 17.
72 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, with that, uh, I hope you can, if, you know, this is 17 as a whole, and this is 3 homes and this is.
73 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To I hope you can solve what is the I do right now.
74 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And so we will have a 100 seconds.
75 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Do solve what is 5 to.
76 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, what is, uh, the value of I do.
77 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Okay, so I think, uh.
78 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We can proceed it proceed.
79 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is the release and let me check the progress.
80 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
79 students 79.
81 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
But, minus me, because my name is so 70 students are currently in this room.
82 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So that's a very good number.
83 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Attending this lecture 70 students, 70 excellence.
84 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And then note here, okay, now, I think almost there.
85 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It's 41 students, that's what he wants to do this.
86 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And there so I to.
87 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Okay, I'll do this 1, so, 17 over 5.
88 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
2+3 5:17:volts divided by 5.
89 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, you can get the I do.
90 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, current sources in parallel, we can add them.
91 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So remember if we have, um.
92 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To do a voltage voltage process.
93 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Just now a good example previously, if this.
94 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
2 of these sources in series, we can add them to make it as a whole.
95 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To make it as a whole, we can add them together.
96 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
But for current sources, if you have.
97 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Current sauce and.
98 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And let's say you're in parallel.
99 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
2 current sources in parallel you can.
100 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Add them back down.
101 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is not possible. Uh, it's not, uh.
102 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Possible to have 2 current success in series.
103 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, we cannot that, and also it's not possible.
104 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You have to both sources.
105 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
In it's not.
106 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Possible okay, so we can.
107 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Do in parallel and current success we can.
108 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We can have it in so what your process we can have in series and W, the current sources we can have in vulnerable.
109 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, if we have 2 current success in parallel, we can add them. Let's say this is 1. this is to.
110 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
As a result, then you can.
111 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is as a result then this become 3. M yes.
112 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That's the 1 that's the 1 thing.
113 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yes.
114 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So so as an example here.
115 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, we have 6, uh, 10.
116 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, 6 for the opposite side, so 6-10.
117 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is -4 so minus for means you right for but.
118 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The arrows is downwards, the arrows is done so they are in parallel. We can add them, but be careful with the polarities. The arrows are heading down.
119 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And how can we.
120 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Make the 3 homes and 6 or 8 total.
121 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yes, yes resist the in parallel to resist the in parallel. We.
122 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, special formula to register parallel 3xby 6 divided by 3+6 you get, uh, as a whole is 2 homes.
123 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
2 homes, so if we have 3, uh, current sources in parallel, so we can add them.
124 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, 7 7+4 is 11 11-3 8.
125 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, as a whole it's a arrow is upwards.
126 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Arrow is pointing upwards so.
127 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
In this example, we want to find I M.
128 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, in the 1st instance, it might be.
129 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Not straightforward or the bit complicated. So why not.
130 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, this, uh, this 1.
131 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We convert to current source.
132 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, because this already current sauce, so this.
133 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Both the sauce, if we convert to current source.
134 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, is that T2 divided by X for and the same resistor is now connected in parallel. So I'm just drawing the orange.
135 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The orange thing here it.
136 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And so this orange to this orange.
137 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And now you can observe that 2 current sources in parallel.
138 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That can be added together 4 and 6 become 10.
139 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
4 and 6, uh, become done.
140 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Okay, so 10 M, yes.
141 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And and, um.
142 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, this, uh, this, uh, uh, Detroit.
143 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This football is the 1 current source with each associate the resistor.
144 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And this orange is another.
145 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Sauce with its associate the resistor in parallel.
146 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this 2, I wonder i2 in parallel, we can make it.
147 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
10 at them, and this 8 Ops and 24 hours.
148 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We, uh, the special formula for 2 resistance in parallel.
149 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, which is, uh, a, uh, multiplied by 24.
150 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Divided by the.
151 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
+24, and you will get.
152 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, 6 months, so, these 2 parent sources.
153 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Let's make it as 1 current sources as a whole with 10 and we.
154 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, 6 phones with 6.
155 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, I will, uh, do a different color. So this is.
156 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And it's, um, 1 as a whole as a current source.
157 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And our our load is still.
158 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Maintain and from here.
159 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
From this current source, the 10.
160 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
From the current source with flow here and you can.
161 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Observe that it will be split that.
162 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Into this and this, so since.
163 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I think, you know, you, you can use current divider room.
164 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You can use the currently by the rule to know.
165 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To to get I L, to get icon. So I'm.
166 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, we did a lot of current divide the room today. I think you, uh, you know, it very well, right now.
167 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, I L, look at the.
168 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
What was it branch and so forth?
169 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, with that, let's, uh.
170 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Let's find let's select the correct answer for.
171 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, uh, let's select the correct answer for.
172 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This select, we'll put it on so I am.
173 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Okay, and using the current divider room.
174 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We can update we checked.
175 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
79 students of 75 students currently here.
176 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yeah, I think, uh, you most lot of correct answers on the left 17 students left yet to attend. So I will.
177 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I think I will show, like, soon.
178 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
15 minutes of this 15 most of this.
179 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Okay, they will almost.
180 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, I L. is 6 divided by 6+14xby 10. M. yes.
181 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yeah.
182 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Um, so, yeah.
183 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, take note, uh, this slide number 27.
184 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is for the future equipment, and also to increase your mouse.
185 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Let's see.
186 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Hello.
187 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Hi, that s.
188 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Safe.
189 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The 104.
190 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That just and, uh, so we have, uh, I, uh.
191 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That's 3.
192 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That's, uh, we mentioned current source cannot be corrected in series.
193 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this is because it violates the law.
194 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Now, let us turn our attention to analysis.
195 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is a metric that provides the nodal voltages of a network that is the voltage form. The various notes of the network to ground.
196 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, previously we have learned.
197 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The jobs, current law so now we are going to let, uh, no, the analysis.
198 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I will just go to the example it's better. It's better than.
199 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, if we have, uh, this.
200 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We have these circuits and.
201 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
A label the to notes, um.
202 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And 0, boots.
203 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Cause this point is the same as this point.
204 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yeah, in the same potential so we call it. We want here. We want to here.
205 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And we are here and this is 0 volts.
206 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is 0 volts and this is 0.
207 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
00:00:volts.
208 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
0 notes.
209 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this is.
210 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The, um.
211 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I want is flowing to here.
212 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I do is flowing to here, so I.
213 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is.
214 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
-24 divided by.
215 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
6 months now.
216 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I to.
217 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
-0/that.
218 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Bye well here to be more correct? Uh, we want.
219 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
-34 this is 0, so -0, if you want to.
220 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That is a lot of analysis so I want this.
221 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, -24-0, divided by 6 by 2 is.
222 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
-0 divided by 12th.
223 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
5 months -1.
224 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So it's like, uh, 2 potential.
225 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Um, has 1 a certain amount of voltage at a higher potential.
226 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And here, uh, it's, uh, 24 walls 0.
227 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, we won minus the 0 goals between 2 potential. We want 9. 0.
228 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Divide it by 12, but here we have another voltage source so we want.
229 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
-24 votes minus, uh, 0.
230 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, because, uh, all slow states that, uh, current.
231 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is, uh, both potential difference divided by resistance?
232 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, here we are just the current here is the potential difference between.
233 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This, and this is this potential is.
234 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is 0, so this potential difference is B1-0.
235 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
0, um.
236 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yeah, we 1.
237 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
From here to here is 24.
238 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And here is 0, so the current that flows through here.
239 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It's own slot the voltage, so the voltage.
240 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is you want -24? 0.
241 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Divided by 6 months. Okay.
242 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And after we, then we can.
243 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Apply the law and the, not the 1.
244 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Because if we zoom here, uh, here.
245 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Here and here and here is.
246 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is by 2 and here is 1.
247 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Here is the current we do not need to do any.
248 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Current currently, uh, 1, so we just write the current value.
249 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And remember a 2.
250 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Arrows going in and arrows going out. So that's why let's say we say going in 1.
251 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
- minus i2.
252 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It was 2:00:and.
253 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, we can, we can.
254 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, and this, uh, 1.
255 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Already 1. mm. Hmm. So 1 and, uh, 1.
256 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is this 1 is.
257 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, here we have the case, uh, uh.
258 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It's going up I do is going out and 1 is going to be.
259 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So that's.
260 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, what is.
261 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Plus I do, we already did just now, that is.
262 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
1 is.
263 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
V1.
264 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
24 overseas, and we did just now that.
265 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I do, is we went over 12.
266 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, from here, you can rearrange use some mathematical techniques or rearranging to to get.
267 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
1, now you want to obtain that is 20 volts, 20 volts.
268 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this is the technique, this call analysis.
269 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This technique is called analysis.
270 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Let's do, uh, another.
271 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, example, yes, John.
272 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Same ground, so 00:00:here we can see.
273 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We can call it, uh, not.
274 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And not be 2 K.
275 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We cannot say that they are the same. We cannot say this is.
276 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Because there is something in the middle, so they are, they must be on this different.
277 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Voltage level, but previously.
278 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, we can call this, we can call this.
279 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Because there is nothing in between them, there's no element in between so the same voltage.
280 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
But in this case, this must be be 1 and this must be some other.
281 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Some other potential difference we call it. We too, we call it 2, which is different.
282 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is different, so they call it. True. Okay so they are in here there are 2 notes. And of course, from now onwards 0.
283 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is you, it's automatic you do not need to.
284 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To -0 anymore like last time.
285 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Because it's just, uh, automatic.
286 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, that they're not there are no. Okay. So if we.
287 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Um, if we for this.
288 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And for this, uh, we, we are going to.
289 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Sort of, uh, step by step the notice.
290 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
In the notes and the students, uh, we'll.
291 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Will cause some of you ask why is it + and .
292 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The software load analysis, the students, we can write the arrows establish.
293 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, at the end, you will get the same answer, but, uh, important thing.
294 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, for example, and others to them.
295 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, like to why not? Uh, the arrows.
296 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The errors of the current, I'll do it like this.
297 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yes, you can do that as well at the end of our calculation. You will get the same answer.
298 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
If this to them, what to do arrows of the current from this node like this, it is valid as well.
299 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
But the tips is the, uh, the main important thing.
300 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
If the look at any current source, if the current source already drawn in this.
301 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You for the arrows is like this.
302 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, you cannot, uh, change the arrows to, uh, speed up for me. I, I just want to.
303 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I like to draw the arrows like this so you cannot do that because the current source is.
304 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Already located and it's like this.
305 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So the arrows, uh, but in this manner is outwards.
306 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And arrows for this, uh, load.
307 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Must be inwards, so you must be consistent if you choose this arrow and the, the current is here, the current will go.
308 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It works for this note and.
309 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To be, uh, for the best for, for and natural.
310 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The arrows go out is not in this manner in this manner.
311 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, let's do, uh.
312 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Let's do the 1st note.
313 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The 1, the, the non.
314 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Not the 1 has 3 arrows.
315 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Has 3 arrows the 1st arrows.
316 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is this 1? The current is this 1 and the problem is.
317 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And because this is not.
318 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
-64, as I mentioned, you do need to -0 is automatic.
319 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, 164 divided by 8.
320 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this is this bracket.
321 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this 1 is.
322 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This point is V2 so.
323 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Minus B2 divided by phone.
324 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You weren't minus B to divide it by phone.
325 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Show that the potential difference or the voltage.
326 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is the 1 here minus? V2?
327 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Divided by 4 bones and the, the next 1 is already mentioned in terms of current. So you do not need to do any division so you just write.
328 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To you just write to Mbps.
329 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
In terms of the negative or positive.
330 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Since you have chosen all the.
331 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yeah, all the current is outwards.
332 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, you write negative, negative, negative.
333 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
For all the currents and equal to 0 because of the.
334 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Because of the principle.
335 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, let's look at.
336 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Veto has, uh, 2 arrows 2 current going in.
337 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And 1 color going out 1 comment is going on.
338 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, since this current is going in.
339 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, you write yeah, minus over for the same 1.
340 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And this is already too.
341 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To, and here, the current going out is V2 over 10.
342 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
3:2:over time, so I just draw.
343 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
3:3:elements 3 currents in.
344 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Brackets so, in this example.
345 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, this I'm going in.
346 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, this, uh, going in and this going out.
347 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, based on your convenience, you can say.
348 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Going in is positive and going out is negative.
349 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
But if you say going in this negative.
350 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You have to be consistent you have to be consistent so going in, in this case, we are consistent that, uh, going in.
351 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is a positive and going out is negative.
352 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, we have to, uh, to, uh, any questions 1 question is for the not 1.
353 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And the 1, and the next question is, for the note, we to.
354 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, we have 2 simultaneous equation with v1 and.
355 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, I hope you can use simultaneous question to solve for that is the metrics that's already mathematics.
356 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
For possible like Roseanne.
357 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, yes, so if you decide.
358 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That, uh, students say, okay, I don't want to.
359 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yeah, is freedom for students, so I don't want, um.
360 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Okay, this 1 is IDs so I want the arrows to be like this.
361 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It's fine, it's mean, if you do arrows like this.
362 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We do -3 1, but it must be consistent for both. So at the end you will get the same answer.
363 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So that the only tips are the only thing that.
364 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The current source, you cannot change the direction cause it's already written here. You cannot write the opposite the rest. You can.
365 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You can write, uh, any, that you can use any direction, but.
366 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Usually here is grounded here is ground, so usually the arrows is better to logically for easy to make this.
367 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is higher potential going down to ground so usually we write the arrow. Like, this seems like this.
368 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Error like this because here is.
369 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
But the others you can choose, you can choose, uh, your direction.
370 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You can choose your direction so, in this 1, this is our code.
371 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This direction is chosen this direction is chosen.
372 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, I think in mass 1 for 1, and I believe some of you, uh, have done best 1 for 2 and so forth.
373 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This app to these are the 2 simultaneous questions.
374 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, it's up to you, whether you want to use a favors rule um.
375 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You want to just solve, uh, 2, simultaneous equation substitution method. So, the freedom is for the students to choose in this example.
376 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It is, uh, Christmas using the famous methods.
377 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Some metrics methods, so.
378 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, if you remember, uh, memorize how to how to solve to using metrics method, but.
379 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
You can if you are not comfortable with tremors rule, you can just use substitution.
380 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this 1-this and so forth.
381 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And then you can get we want and we same answer. V1 is the 7.2volts and is 32.73volts.
382 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this is room, but if you want to use, you can revise this.
383 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, to get, uh, uh, to know what is room.
384 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, in here, there's another example.
385 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Another example here, so obvious so usually, uh, and we do the student.
386 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We'll identify the notes. Sometimes the question also identify already. You just used to be 1.
387 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And because there is an element here.
388 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We must work here we do, it cannot be 1 because it, it's not in the same potential.
389 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, we want and this is 0, the reference is 0.
390 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Okay, so if we use.
391 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
We want, and these arrows cannot be changed because the arrow from the current source.
392 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is already in this direction here this arrow, usually we go downwards because towards the ground, right?
393 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It's very, um, uh, it's okay if you want to do.
394 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The question already right? Draw for you use the questions arrow. Okay if the question has drawn for, you use the questions arrow and if the question have drawn like this use in this direction. Mm. Hmm. And here.
395 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Here's, uh, it's not mentioned the arrow, but it's better to go to the ground cause high potential and this is 0.
396 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Current and here, the current is in this manner so, uh, to must be in this direction.
397 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, if we go to, uh, not.
398 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, i1, uh.
399 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Sometimes they use sometimes.
400 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I will, um, after going out is positive.
401 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So so the problem, so I won.
402 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, I want to use this 1 going out.
403 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, i3, we decide that going outwards is positive. So I want.
404 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
+3 and here is for.
405 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So so I won plus i3-for become 0 or.
406 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
+3 equals 2:4:8 so that is.
407 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The 1st note, and we can extend it. So I want.
408 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Is this 1 is, uh, voltage 1?
409 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
-0, so what is 1 divided by? 1?
410 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Or we want divided by 2 so I, uh, this 1 is i3 is v1 because.
411 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Currently is moving this way so we weren't minus V2 divided by 12.
412 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That is that is.
413 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Hello, how i2 is going downwards so it must be to.
414 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Divided by 6 so i2 is B2 divided by 6 for the notes and we do notes.
415 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, 3 is going in, we call our own is going out.
416 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And the 2 empty current is going out. So i2 last.
417 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
To is equal to 3.
418 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And then we have 2 simultaneous a question with.
419 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, we want and we do, so we can now so.
420 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The, and so the 1 last example, here.
421 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Before we finish and.
422 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Before we finish, so here another example, we, we call, uh, if there is nothing mentioned, we just write our own and.
423 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And here this and this is better, this 1 must be mandatory.
424 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, is going in and this.
425 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Usually, if there's, uh, the current is going to be 1 towards the ground.
426 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And the 2 is mandatory in this direction.
427 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And here is up to you, but I can see.
428 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yeah, I do believe he has flipped and then go in here. I want so, if this nicer or better that this current is in this direction.
429 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
That's like this going here, but if you in case, you're right on the opposite.
430 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Be consistent and you will, uh, reach the same answer.
431 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So this is the case, um.
432 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
2 arrows 1 arrow going in to arrows going up. So.
433 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
The i3 is going in.
434 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And the 1 going out is to and I are 1.
435 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, 3 since the arrow is from here, so V2-1 over 3.
436 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
2 MVPs going out and.
437 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
I are 1 is over 6.
438 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, at this, not be to, um.
439 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
1:1:uh current going in and 2 arrows or 2 current going out.
440 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So the 1 is going in these 3 the 1 that's going out his i3 and I are 2.
441 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So, i3 is we do minus v1 over 3.
442 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And I are, too, is we to divide -0 or V2 divided by phone? So we have 2 similar tendency questions.
443 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Uh, we unknowns we want, so we can solve it. We can certainly.
444 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So think any questions on the best, hope you do better or.
445 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Performance as for next week's quiz to pick next week's piece.
446 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
And well done to your performance in 1 this 1, thank you. See you next.
447 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
See, you next week or not I will, uh, it will be the same. Same. Same. Same. W, how many questions? Uh, 1 hour I didn't I didn't put it in. My thing is, uh, only a few questions. Any questions.
448 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
It's awesome.
449 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Hello.
450 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
So.
451 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Yes.
452 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
This is a possibility.
453 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
10:45:sorry I keep right from the break. You talked about that last week squeeze on the backside, or? Oh, yes, yeah, because I didn't see it on the.
454 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Can you, can you get a ID number? 8? 1.
455 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Hello.
456 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Stage 1:9:3 so.
457 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3390777088)
Stop recording this. Are they going to be released themselves? Yes, because, uh, I'm waiting.